**In the name of Allah**

# #004: PHP tags
- Tags 
    - Opening & Closing
    ```php
    <?php>

    ?>
    ```
    > *The best practise is to delete the closing tag if our code is only in **PHP**.*

    - Shortcut:
    ```php
    <?="";>
    ```
- PHP is not case sensitive.

# #005: Comments
```php
// Single line comment
# Single line comment

/*
Multi-line
comment
*/
print 'Test' /*this is a test*/;
```

# #006: Data Types
* bool.
* int.
* float (double).
* string.
* array.
* other types...

`gettype()`

# #008: Type Casting
* `(int)` or `(integer)`.
* `(float)`, `(double)` or `(real)`.
* `(bool)` or `(boolean)`.
* `(string)`.
* `(array)`.
* `(object)`.
* `(null)`.

# #009
`var_dump()`: outputs detailed information about a variable.

# #010
* String Escaping: `\`.
* New Line: `nl2br()`.

# #011: Herdoc & Nowdoc
* **Heredoc**: Allows default scaping of the strings.
* **Nowdoc**: Prints the string exactly as it is.

# #012: Array with complex tests
To print the items of an array, we use `print_r()` instead of `echo`.

# #013: Variables & Naming Rules
### Naming Rules:
* Start with a $ sign.
* Start with a letter or an underscore.
* Can use numbers inside the name.
* No special characters are allowed.
* Case sensitive.

> PHP is a **loosely typed language** (*dynamic*).

# #015: Variable Variable
Takes the value of a variable & treat it as the name of another variable.

# #016: Assign by value & by reference
- *By default, variables are assigned **by value**.*
- When we assign **by reference**(`&`), we point the variable to the other.

> References are **NOT** pointers.

# #017: Predefined Variables
Check their list

# #018: Constants
- Declaration: `define("name", "value")`

# #019: Predefined & Magic Constants
- Predefined Constants [*Case sensitive*]:
    - `PHP_VERSION`
    - `PHP_OS_FAMILY`
    - `PHP_INT_MAX`
    - `DEFAULT_INCLUDE_PATH`
- Magic Constants [*case insensitive*]:
    - `__LINE__`
    - `__FILE__`
    - `__DIR__`
- Reserved Keywords:
    - break.
    - clone.

# #020: Arithmetic Operators
- `+$a`: **Identity** (*converts any string to a number*).
- `-$a`: **Negation** (*converts any string to a number and negate it*).

# #022 & #023: Comparison Operators
- `==`: Equal.
- `!=` or `<>`: Not Equal.
- `===`: Identical.
- `!==`: Not Identical.
- `<=>`: Spaceship [***Less than, Equal, or Greater***].
    * Less than ===> -1.
    * Equal ===> 0.
    * Greater than ===> 1.